---
layout: page
permalink: /curriculum/2017-2018/
title: Syllabus 2017-2018
---

# Praxis Schedule 2017-2018

Praxis meets for two hours once a week during the academic year. The following schedule represents a projection of what the content of those weekly meetings will be. Each session is projected to be roughly 90 minutes long, which will allow plenty of time for flexibility and conversation with the group before and after.

n.b. - we planned on having the students work in the Makerspace, but, since we really want them to drive the thing, we followed their interests. They quickly moved away from the Makerspace and critical making towards an interest in augmented reality. We followed them, which meant that the workshops and sequence changed a lot. So I preserved both curricula here - the one we planned and the one we actually wound up doing. In the second one you can see what we swapped out.

## Makerspace plan

### Fall - 14 weeks
August 22 - December 5

* 1 - Evaluating Digital Work / What We Talk about When We Talk about Digital Humanities, All Staff
* 2 - Intro to Charters, Ronda
* 3 - How Computers Work, Ammon; Intro to Makerspace, Makerspace Tech
* 4 - Command Line, Senior Dev
* 5 - Git/GitHub, Senior Dev
* 6 - Document Representation on the Web (HTML/CSS/MarkDown), Jeremy
* 7 - Critical Making pt 1, Intro to Jekyll
* 8 - 3D Printing pt 1
* 9 - 3D Printing pt 2
* 10 - Critical Making pt 2
* 11 - Wearables pt 1
* 12 - Wearables pt 2
* 13 - Circuits/Arduinos pt 1 - Working Through the SIK Guide in Pairs
* 14 - Circuits/Arduinos pt 2 - Programming Concepts, Ammon

### Spring - 14 weeks
January 17 - May 11

* 1 - Literature/Project Survey, Praxis Fellows
* 2 - Project Management, Ronda
* 3 - Work Time
* 4 - Copyright and IP, Brandon Butler
* 5 - Work Time
* 6 - Grants and Budgets, Amanda and Laura
* 7 - Work time
* 8 - Dissertations to Project Ideas and Vice Versa, Amanda
* 9 - Work Time
* 10 - Work Time
* 11 - Future Projects Design Jam, All Staff
* 12 - Work Time
* 13 - Work Time
* 14 - Work Time

---

## What we actually did

Notable subtractions are struck through; notable additions in bold.

### Fall - 14 weeks
August 22 - December 5

* 1 - Evaluating Digital Work / What We Talk about When We Talk about Digital Humanities, All Staff
* 2 - Intro to Charters, Ronda
* 3 - <strike>How Computers Work, Ammon; Intro to Makerspace, Makerspace Tech</strike> How Computers Work and History of Computation, Ammon and Shane;
* 4 - Command Line, Shane
* 5 - <strike>Git/GitHub, Shane (moved later)</strike> Work Time
* 6 - Document Representation on the Web (HTML/CSS/MarkDown), Jeremy; **Introduction to Cultural Heritage Informations for Augmented and Virtual Reality, Will and Arin**
* 7 - <strike>Critical Making pt 1</strike>, Intro to Jekyll, Ammon. Intro to Git, Shane.
* 8 - <strike>3D Printing pt 1</strike> Intro to Project Management, Ronda (moved earlier)
* 9 - <strike>3D Printing pt 2</strike> Introduction to Unity workshop, Will and Arin
* 10 - <strike>Critical Making pt 2</strike> Work on DH abstract
* 11 - <strike>Wearables pt 1</strike> Unity Workshop 2 - Unity Troubleshooting, Will and Arin
* 12 - <strike>Wearables pt 2</strike> Introduction to Photogrammetry, Will and Arin
* 13 - <strike>Circuits/Arduinos pt 1 Working Through the SIK Guide in Pairs</strike> Introduction to JavaScript, Zoe

### Spring - 14 weeks
January 17 - May 11

Besides the workshops interspersed, we held weekly scrums that took between 40 and 60 minutes.

* 1 - Literature/Project Survey, Praxis Fellows
* 2 - <strike>Project Management, Ronda (Moved earlier)</strike> Work time
* 3 - Work time
* 4 - **Collaboration and Project Health Workshop, all staff**
* 5 - **Feature scoping workshop, Zoe**
* 6 - Work time
* 7 - Work time
* 8 - Budgets, Amanda and Laura; Grants, Dave Hennigan
* 9 - Copyright and IP, Brandon Butler
* 10 - Work time
* 11 - <strike>Future Projects Design Jam, All Staff</strike>Dissertations to Project Ideas and Vice Versa, Amanda
* 12 - Work time
* 13 - Work time
* 14 - Presentation! Celebration.
