---
layout: page
permalink: /curriculum/2018-2019/
title: Syllabus 2018-2019
---

# Praxis Schedule 2018-2019

Praxis meets officially for two hours once a week during the academic year. The following schedule represents a projection of what the content of those weekly meetings will be. Each session is projected to be roughly 60 minutes long, which will allow plenty of time for flexibility and conversation with the group before and after.

This year we broke out the technical components into a third hour at the suggestion of Zoe. This coding track ran concurrently throughout the year, and the extra contact hour gave us a chance to go further with the students.

Code lab curriculum - [https://github.com/scholarslab/CodeLab](https://github.com/scholarslab/CodeLab)

### Fall - 14 weeks

August 28 - December 7

Three assignments - charter, workshop, grant/project proposal.
Goal is to have them develop a portfolio of things at the end of the year both individually and as a group.
In the spring

* Week 1
  * Friday, September 7th from 1-3 – Brown 133
    * Digital Pedagogy and Praxis, Brandon; Framing of charter assignment **All folks booked**
    * Readings assigned
      * [Scholars’ Lab charter](http://scholarslab.org/about/charter)
      * [Scholars’ Lab student program charter](http://scholarslab.org/student-programs-charter/)
      * [Praxis Program charter](http://praxis.scholarslab.org/charter/) - (overlaps a lot with the previous one, so I’d just look for the different bits)
      * [A Digital Boot Camp for Grad Students in the Humanities](https://www.chronicle.com/article/A-Digital-Boot-Camp-for-Grad/131665/) by former SLab director Bethany Nowviskie
* Week 2
  * Tuesday, September 11th from 11-12 in Alderman 423
    * Code camp 1 - intro to computation; intro to bash; pep talk
  * Friday, September 14th from 1-3 – Brown 133
    * Brandon Butler visit to frame public domain toolkit project; Intro to Charters, Ronda; **All folks booked**
    * Readings assigned
      * Public domain day brief intro that Brandon Butler put together (circulated by email)
      * Other Praxis cohort charters, available on the Praxis site - [http://praxis.scholarslab.org/charter/](http://praxis.scholarslab.org/charter/). Explore to your heart’s content, but they repeat each other a fair amount. So no need to go overboard - I might pick one or two.
      * And then, if you have time, you might check out one or two of the resources here - [http://praxis.scholarslab.org/resources/toward-a-project-charter/](http://praxis.scholarslab.org/resources/toward-a-project-charter/). Those are all related to charter development and very worthwhile. Explore at your interest, but the Collaborators’ Bill of Rights and Bethany’s piece are probably the most widely cited.
    
* Week 3
  * Tuesday, September 18th from 11-12 - Alderman 423
    * Code camp 2 - Intro to Python I
  * Friday, September 21st from 1-2 – Alderman 423
    * Lightning Round of DH Methods and Disciplines. Round 1 - Texts (Alison), Archives (Jeremy), Makerspaces (Ammon);  **All folks booked**
    * Paul Fyfe talk - Friday, September 21st from 2-3 in Clemons 407
* Week 4
  * Tuesday, September 25th from 11-12 - Alderman 423
    * Code camp 3 - Intro to Python II
  * Friday, September 28th from 11-12 - Grad Lounge
    * Skype with Georgia Tech Digital Humanities Fellowship program
  * Friday, September 28th from 1-2 – Brown 133
    * Lightning Round 2b - Maps (Chris/Drew). Charter due; discuss charters **Confirming moved folks. All booked**
* Week 5
  * Tuesday, October 2, 9-11 – Alderman 423
    * 9:00-9:30 - Augmented Reality / CHI (Arin).VR / CHI (Will). 
    * 9:30-11:00 - Workshop on workshops (Brandon); Framing of Workshop assignment. 
    * Reading: "[Beyond Buttonology: Digital Humanities, Digital Pedagogy, and the ACRL Framework](https://crln.acrl.org/index.php/crlnews/article/view/16833/18427)" **All folks booked**
  * Tuesday, October 2, 11-12 – Alderman 423
    * Code camp 4 topic TBD

No meeting week of October 8th due to reading days

* Week 6
  * Tuesday, October 16, 9-11 – Alderman 423
    * Programming Historian lesson in advance; readings and pedagogy discussion
  * Tuesday, October 16, 11-12  – Alderman 423
    * Code camp 5 topic TBD
* Week 7
  * Tuesday, October 23, 9-10:45 – Alderman 421 
    * Skype with Mackenzie Brooks at W&L on pedagogy in liberal arts context; **All folks booked** 
  * Tuesday, October 23, 11-12 Alderman 423
    * Code camp 6 topic TBD
* Week 8
  * Tuesday, October 30, 9-11 – Alderman 423
    * "Workshops" due; discuss them. Framing of grant / project proposal assignment.
  * Tuesday, October 30, 11-12 – Alderman 423
    * Code camp 7 topic TBD
* Week 9
  * Tuesday, November 6, 9-12 - Brown 133
    * Hold for Erin Rose Glass visit - might still have an hour to work with. **All folks booked**
* Week 10
  * Tuesday, November 13, 9-11 – Alderman 423
    * First hour - Grants and Budgets, Amanda/Laura/Dave **Amanda is booked. Laura and Davesolicited.**
  * Tuesday, November 13, 11-12 – Alderman 423
    * Code camp 8 topic TBD

No meetings week of November 19th due to University holiday

* Week 11
  * Tuesday, November 27, 9-11 – Alderman 423
    * Dissertations to Project Ideas and Vice Versa, Amanda. Design Jam **Amanda booked. Ping other folks about coming to the design jam**
  * Tuesday, November 27, 11-12 – Alderman 423
    * Code camp 9 topic TBD
* Week 12
  * Tuesday, December 4, 9-11– Alderman 421
    * Grant proposals due. Discuss Them. Framing of next semester.
  * Tuesday, December 4, 11-12 Alderman 423
    * Code camp 10 topic TBD

### Spring - 14 weeks
Will be roughed out later in fall as we get scheduling sorted
January 14 - April 30

* 1 - Project Management, Ronda
* 2 - Literature/Project Survey, Praxis Fellows
* 3 - Work Time
* 4 - Copyright and IP, Brandon Butler
* 5 - Work Time
* 6 - Work Time
* 7 - Work Time
* 8 - Work Time
* 9 - Work Time
* 10 - Soft launch of web presence for project
* 11 - Work Time
* 12 - Skype with Georgia Tech about cohort project
* 13 - Work Time
* 14 - Public presentation
