---
layout: page
permalink: /curriculum/2024-2025/
title: Syllabus 2024-2025

---

## Sessions

## About
Praxis meets for four hours weekly during the academic year. Students are expected to put in roughly ten hours of work total each week.

Praxis follows the schedule of the academic calendar. So first meetings will be the first week of classes, we will observe holidays and reading days, and we'll end each semester the last week of classes. We'll aim to start out in the Scholars' Lab common room but can move elsewhere if that's not working.

## Goals and Outcomes

Two tracks running simultaneously: PraxisGeneral and CodeLab

1. PraxisGeneral contains three units: Communities of DH, DH Teaching and Learning, and DH Research and Administration.
2. CodeLab runs yearlong a year and consists of an introduction to humanities programming fundamentals, design, and Python.

Each of these tracks contains a variety of deliverables:

* A group charter, a statement of values and practices we will adhere to as a community
* A personalized plan for self-study throughout the year meant to take advantage of the resources in the lab
* An individual teaching plan for a DH workshop based around the students' interests
* A DH teaching statement
* A speculative personal project proposal for what comes next for them to be workshopped by the group
* Activities meant to exercise technical and design thinking as they relate to humanities problems
* Spring Hackathon as a group
* Final presentation to a local audience
* Two blog posts

These discussions and outcomes encompass a variety of different definitions of what it means to "do DH." DH is capacious enough that it is quite difficult to design a program that can both introduce a broad range of approaches but also engage individual paths. Accordingly, the outcomes and units offer a mix of individual and group activities, but each student will need to supplement this work with self-study around their particular interests. We frame the year with twin sessions directed at this: in the fall, we spend time with each student design jamming their interests to help design a plan for the year and, in the spring, each student shares back where their interests have developed and next steps for them.

By the end of the year, students will have a portfolio of experiences and work directed towards the following goals. Students will:

* Practice DH in the following areas using appropriate technologies, methods, and activities:
  * Community building
  * Teaching
  * Research and project design
  * Administration
  * Programming
  * Design
* become capable of pursuing their own interests in the above areas moving forward;
* see digital humanities as a field and career path available to them regardless of their background;
* come to see themselves as experts in digital research with experiences worthy of sharing with others as scholars and teachers;
* and prepare themselves to pay it forward, early and often.

## CodeLab and DesignLab

Description generated by GPT3:

In Codelab, you are a raccoon who is a master of digital humanities heists. You are tasked with stealing data and information from various sources in order to help your criminal organization. You must use your skills of hacking to bypass security measures and get your hands on the valuable data. Be careful though, as you are not the only one after the data. The police and other rival gangs will be hot on your tail. Can you outwit them all and become the ultimate digital humanist?

CodeLab is a semester-long introduction to the foundations programming and computational thinking for Digital Humanities. You will gain experience using a variety of technologies (Python, git/github) relevant to technical work in DH and exercise these new skills with some focused activities relevant to DH work.

DesignLab is a 10-week primer on critical approaches to design for Digital Humanities work, that includes conceptual and application work in the following areas:

* HTML, CSS, JavaScript;
* Information architecture/organization
* Graphic/Visual design elements and concepts
* Accessibility + Usability
* Scoping/Strategizing approaches for design projects;

By the end of this, students should have a better understanding of how to approach design for advocacy and intervention work in Digital Humanities.

## Schedule

{% for session in site.sessions %}
{% if session.path contains '2024-2025' %}
{% assign session_date = session.path | split:"/" | last | split:"." | first %}
<section id="{{ session.title | slugify }}-{{ session_date }}" class="session">
<h3>{{ session_date | date: "%B %d, %Y" }} | {{ session.title }}</h3>
{{ session.content | markdownify }}
</section>
{% endif %}
{% endfor %}





{% comment %}

### Spring - 17 weeks - January 17 - April 30

Meeting times Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10-12 in new main Library space

**Unit 3: Research and Administration in DH**

How do you conduct research in DH? How do you design a successful project? What do we mean when we call something a digital project, and how do we define them with an ethos that is meaningful to us? How do infrastructure and administration in the field intersect with DH research, enabling or inhibiting it? How do these questions bring us back around to the beginning of the year, by developing communities and audiences for our work? The students will explore these through project management activities resulting in individual project proposals based on their work as well as speculative activities for DH events.

Main assignment will be a two-page proposal for a project that you would work on after praxis in the style of a grant application. Try to hit on the following categories (though it's only two pages so each one will be pretty short!):

* Project description
* Literature review
* Technical overview
* Project development timeline
* Outreach/audience strategy
* Sustainability and Copyright
* Budget

We will have in-session consults about each of your proposals, so they will be due by 9am on the Monday of the week you'll be on deck, in weeks 9-11. A fuller description of the assignment is available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11LWYsSyRfa9Ftq_U_urTpYJFQCNa-EpEZmeceEkoYJg/edit?usp=sharing).

* 1 - Week of Jan 15
  * Tuesday the 16th - no session b/c classes haven't started
  * Thursday the 18th, 10-11
    * Welcome back; the plan for this semester
    * Hackathon pre-conversation; reminder of where you're at.
      * Agenda setting for what group decisions should be made by next hackathon session on Thursday the 26th.
    * Photo shoot from 11-12

* 2 - Week of Jan 22
  * Tuesday the 23rd 10-11
    * Project design pt 1; Ronda (**TBD**)
    * Readings
      * Sharon Leon, "[Project Management for Humanists: Preparing Future Primary Investigators](http://mars.gmu.edu/bitstream/handle/1920/8048/Project%20Management%20for%20Humanists%20%7c%20%23alt-academy%3a%20Alternative%20Academic%20Careers.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y)"
      * Bethany Nowviskie, "[Ten Rules for Humanities Scholars New to Project Management](http://nowviskie.org/handouts/DH/10rules.pdf)"
      * [DevDH.org](http://devdh.org/) (this is enormous, so you might just pick one or two things to explore in it that interest you)
  * Tuesday the 23rd, 11-12
    * Project design pt 1; Ronda **TBD**
  * Thursday the 25th, 10-11
    * Code Lab
  * Thursday the 25th, 11-12
    * A third pre-hackathon session - try to narrow. What can we actually reasonably do in three weeks? How can we make it as small as possible such that we feel comfortable with the ethical and logistical constraints we have? Come to the session having done your best attempt to do so as a group.

* 3 - Week of Jan 29
  * Tuesday the 30th, 10-11
    * Project design pt 2; Ronda **TBD**
    Readings
      * Bre Pettis and Kio Stark, "[Cult of Done Manifesto](https://medium.com/@bre/the-cult-of-done-manifesto-724ca1c2ff13)"
      * Bethany Nowviskie, "[Skunks in the Library: A Parth to Production for Scholarly R&D](https://libraopen.lib.virginia.edu/downloads/bn999676z)"
      * Duke Wired Lab, [Visualizing Objects, Places, and Spaces: A Digital Project Handbook](https://handbook.pubpub.org/) (this is enormous, so you might just pick one or two things to explore in it that interest you)
  * Tuesday the 1st, 11-12
    * Project design pt 2; Ronda **TBD**
  * Thursday the 1st, 10-12
    * CodeLab

* 4 - Week of Feb 5
  * Tuesday the 6th, 10-11
    * DH Publics pt 1; Laura (**TBD**)
    * Readings
      * [Bethany’s DLF Organizers’ Toolkit](https://wiki.diglib.org/About_DLF_and_the_Organizers%27_Toolkit) - Particularly the following, or other areas of your interest:
        * General Facilitation & Goal Setting
        * Planning for Diversity & Inclusion
        * Planning Virtual Meetings and Webinars
      * Debates in DH 2016 ([Chapter 22 Here and There: Creating DH Community](https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.5749/j.ctt1cn6thb.25) by Miriam Posner)
      * Katrina Spencer’s [Comprehensive Guide to Resisting Overcommittement](https://www.uproot.space/features/the-comprehensive-guide-to-resisting-overcommitment)
      * [Life Kit (Personal/Professional Branding, or How to Make Social Media Work for You)](https://www.npr.org/2022/12/22/1145024670/find-your-authentic-personal-brand)
  * Tuesday the 6th, 11-12
    * DH Publics pt 1; Laura (**TBD**)
  * Thursday the 8th, 10-12
    * CodeLab

* 5 - Week of Feb 12
  * Tuesday the 13th, 10-11
    * DH Publics pt 2; Laura (**TBD**)
    * Readings - A variety of Codes of Conduct
      * [DLF](https://www.diglib.org/about/code-of-conduct/)
      * [MLA](https://www.mla.org/Convention/Appropriate-Conduct-at-the-MLA-Annual-Convention)
      * [ACH](https://ach2021.ach.org/ach-conference-code-of-conduct/)
      * [Humanities Podcasting Network Symposium](http://humanitiespodnetwork.org/index.php/community-guidelines/)
  * Tuesday the 13th, 11-12
    * DH Publics pt 2; Laura (**TBD**)
  * Thursday the 15th, 10-12
    * CodeLab

* 6 - Week of Feb 19
  * Tuesday the 20th, 10-11:30
    * Brandon Butler on copyright and IP (**TBD**)
    * “[https://berkeley.pressbooks.pub/buildinglltdm/](https://berkeley.pressbooks.pub/buildinglltdm/)” - Focus on the copyright chapter under “Substantive Literacies”, but you might skim or browse other chapters according to your interest, curiosity
    * Kathleen Fitzpatrick, “[Giving it Away](https://kfitz.info/giving-it-away/)”
  * Tuesday the 20th, 11:30-12
    * Fellows present hackathon modules
  * Thursday the 22nd, 10-12
    * CodeLab

* 7 - Week of Feb 26
  * Tuesday the 27th, 10-11
    * Project design pt 2; Ronda **TBD**
    * Readings
      * Bre Pettis and Kio Stark, "[Cult of Done Manifesto](https://medium.com/@bre/the-cult-of-done-manifesto-724ca1c2ff13)"
      * Bethany Nowviskie, "[Skunks in the Library: A Parth to Production for Scholarly R&D](https://libraopen.lib.virginia.edu/downloads/bn999676z)"
      * Duke Wired Lab, [Visualizing Objects, Places, and Spaces: A Digital Project Handbook](https://handbook.pubpub.org/) (this is enormous, so you might just pick one or two things to explore in it that interest you)
  * Tuesday the 27th, 11-12
    * Dave Hennigan on grants  (**TBD**)
  * Thursday the 29th, 10-12
    * CodeLab

* 8 - Week of March 4; **No meetings! Spring break**

**Unit 4: Next Steps for You**

What has resonated for you this year? What will you pick up and take with you from what we've learned? What comes next for you? What will your DH look like? What conversations do you want to have? Each student in the cohort will design a session and lead the group in discussion about these questions.

Students' two-page DH project proposals due by 9am Monday the week when they present. Full description of assignment [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11LWYsSyRfa9Ftq_U_urTpYJFQCNa-EpEZmeceEkoYJg/edit?usp=sharing).

* 9 - Week of March 11
  * Tuesday the 12th, 10-12
    * in-session consults with students on their proposals and discussion of what's next for them
    * Molly
    * Katie
  * Thursday the 14th, 10-12
    * CodeLab

* 10 - Week of March 18
  * Tuesday the 19th, 10-12
    * in-session consults with students on their proposals and discussion of what's next for them
      * Rachel
      * Seanna
  * Thursday the 21st, 10-12
    * CodeLab

* 12 - Week of March 25
  * Tuesday the 26th, 10-11
    * in-session consults with students on their proposals and discussion of what's next for them
    * Arselyne
  * Tuesday the 26th, 11-12
    * Suitable team on Budgets and Management (**TBD**)
    * Readings
      * [Precarious Labor and the Digital Humanities](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/704356])
      * [What is a job directing a humanities research center like?](http://literaturegeek.com/2023/02/17/graduate-student-careers-talk)
  * Thursday the 28th, 10-12
    * CodeLab

**Unit 5: Hackathon**

How can we put all this together? What does concentrated team work on a technical project in DH look like? This spring Hackathon will ask students to apply what they've learned to address a digital humanities challenge.

* 12 - Week of April 1;
  * Hackathon week 1: shaping;
* 13 - Week of April 8;
  * Hackathon week 2: doing;
* 14 - Week of April 15;
  * Hackathon week 3: doing;
* 15 - Week of April 22;
  * Hackathon week 4: finishing;

* 16 - Week of April 29; Final Presentation Prep;
  * Final Presentation will be scheduled 10:30-12:00 one day the week of exams May 3rd **TODO**
* 17 - Week of May 6
  * Holdover week just in case

{% endcomment %}